I want to start by appreciating my sisters and brothers here with today; H.E. Ms. Otiko Afisa Djaba, Minister for Gender, Children and Social Protection, Ghana is here, because Ghana in the African Union is the champion for gender and development. So, we are in a good place.

We have our sister and advocate on women, peace and security Ms. Bineta Diop, Special Envoy on Women, Peace and Security, African Union Commission. We have Ambassador Patricia Flor, Director-General for International Order, United Nations and Arms Control at the German Federal Foreign Office, and our brother from Germany, who is also a friend of the African women.

We have our sister, H.E. Ms. Minata Samate Cessouma, Commissioner for Political Affairs, African Union. We have our sister H.E. Ms. Catherine Samba-Panza, former President of the Transition, Central African Republic, who as Head of State did a wonderful job at a very difficult time in a very complex country. When Madame Diop and I visited her to pledge our solidarity and support, we said, as we say in my country, “stay strong, stay strong”.  And it was good that she did stay strong, and we are so proud of her. And of course, we have H.E. Ms. Margot Wallström, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Sweden, and also my brother here from Sweden.  As you know, Sweden has always been a good friend of African women. So, we are good here. We are really good.

As Mrs. Diop has indicated, we launched this Network in June this year; it was a vibrant time. Many of you in the house today were there at that launch, and we committed ourselves to some critical deliverables. We said that this was not going to be a talk shop, but that it was going to be action-oriented; it must have a direct linkage with grassroots, so it must not be just meetings in New York. People on the ground must feel the presence and the existence of this Network.

We also agreed that it must be intergenerational, with a mechanism to bring in young people and work with them. We identified the fact that we have got excellent resolutions in the African Union and in our countries, but not all of them are being implemented as quickly as possible. We are going to identify critical existing conventions and agreements of the AU and rally behind them, so we can see that there is effective implementation.

We particularly highlighted ending child marriage—and we are now adding accelerating that commitment—because this is a position that has been taken by all countries.

We agreed that we will make sure that we are felt in the countries where women need us most, and that is why we will embark on solidarity missions.

We also said that we would start contributing towards financing this Network. I think we were able at the end of the first meeting to bank 3000 euros. It is a start. The Minister of Finance of Uganda was instantly elected as Treasurer, and she was telling us that she wants to see the books being kept properly.

We agreed that we would promote South-South and North-South cooperation, so that we would have friendship between and amongst Africans, as well as friendship between Africa and the rest of the world.

We agreed that we would address the participation of women in elections in their countries, as well as ensuring that the electoral processes in our countries are engendered so that women can participate.

And we said we would meet twice a year, and that every time we meet we must have a concrete report of what we have done in the interim period.

So what have we done?

The first big event was the solidarity mission that we undertook with the Deputy Secretary-General in DRC and Nigeria. In Nigeria, we particularly wanted to welcome, support and accompany the healing process of the Chibok girls who had been returned, while highlighting also the plight of the girls who have not returned. We were able to see that the girls were on their way to mending and healing, and that there was a lot of support from government. We left thinking that there is still more we can do. We discussed the importance of continuing to highlight the plight of the many other girls who have been captured and whom no one knows about, whose situation has not been publicized, as well as to encourage activities that will discourage the kinds of incidences that led to so many girls in their communities being abducted.

We also highlighted the fact that there is a much lower participation of women in Nigeria in Parliament, and the fact that are elections coming soon. We therefore need to work very hard to support the women in Nigeria, in order to make sure that in the next elections we have increased the number of women that are going to be represented in Parliament. So, we have started working in Nigeria with the women that we have networked with, in order to make sure that, firstly, we enable the women to stand for election, and that we also encourage women to support one another, and target parts of Nigeria where we know women stand a stronger chance to win, so that we can all rally behind those women in their constituencies. We were warmly received by the Government, by civil society, and of course also by our colleagues from the African Union and the UN.

We also visited the Democratic Republic of Congo, again in solidarity to highlight the plight of women in the DRC. On one hand, we were there to appreciate the work, especially that which has been done by Mrs. Mabunda, who is the Special Representative in the President’s Office, who has been focusing on addressing the issue of violence against women as well as children who have been abducted. We however said that even though the incidents of violence in parts of Congo were declining, the situation is still unacceptable. We happened to be there also when some very disturbing occurrences has taken place in Kasai, so it was good also to be there in solidarity with the women in that part of the country.

We visited the Parliament and we visited civil society, and we discussed the importance of passing the electoral law that will align with the Constitution and facilitate gender parity ahead of the next elections. We encouraged women to continue to register in the voters’ roll so we can increase the number of women who can vote in the next elections. We had interactions with the chairperson of the electoral commission who assured us that they would be employing women as at least 30 per cent of those working as electoral officers. We are hoping that that would also make sure that women were aware of the electoral processes so that they protected their interests. We met a vibrant group of women from all over the country, ready to run for elections. We were encouraged by that, and again we began right away to plot and plan for how we are going to support them to run, and to win.

We then went to Goma. You know Goma has a very horrible history of violence against women and we and many other institutions have been working there for the past few years. Again, we saw the resilience of the women there, despite the difficulties that they still face. We were so encouraged to see how many of the women there wanted to run for election. In their own words, they said “We want our own destiny in our own hands”. And again they were investing in a lot of activities to support the women there. But the situation is challenging. Women are still in camps as IDPs, and working as small entrepreneurs, many of them trying to survive with their families. We have to continue to support them to fight the violence that still goes on there, though not at the scale at which it once was. All in all, we were able to demonstrate the solidarity of all of you with the women of the DRC. Much more still needs to be done so that we continue to support the women and to strengthen them.

You also agreed that we should start planning how we will have a coordinated approach in supporting women to run for elections. A session has already taken place in Addis Ababa in August, so when we meet there in February next year we will be able to give you more concrete details of how we will work on the issue of elections. I must say that in Senegal we have been active, and we have supported the women who are running for elections in Senegal. We are also active in Kenya, supporting the women there. So, we are on the ball. This team is working very hard.

We also agreed that we need to make sure that we prepare ourselves for the next Commission on the Status of Women (CSW) in March next year—CSW62—which will focus on rural women. That is a story about and for Africa. When you go home, please let us prepare for CSW62, and make sure that the actual rural women come to participate. We are going to be asking governments to make sure that in their delegation they include young women and rural women so that they are able to participate directly in the discussions that affect their destiny.

I want to thank you for both launching the Network and for remaining interested. The next trip of the Network on a solidarity mission is to Burundi which is in two weeks. We still owe South Sudan a visit, something that we need to work towards, and next year we will organize a few more solidarity trips as well. So, we are open for business.

Thank you so much for helping us to establish the Network. Thank you AU for your leadership, and thank you Germany and Sweden for your solidarity.


Thank you very much excellencies for your inspiring words. Thank you to Finland, Zambia, Costa Rica, UNFPA, my colleagues at UN Women, and the EU for hosting this very important side event today. We have all come through testing times recently, in the process of adopting the new four-year organizational strategic plans, where mutual issues were being tested and discussed between and amongst us, as UN agencies and Member States. It is not enough just to have these discussions; we still have to find much better consensus than we have now.

So, the moment is timely. It is also important to see the linkage between women’s economic empowerment and sexual and reproductive health and rights. It is at the time when women are entering the labour market (if they’re lucky), that they’re also becoming mothers, and at the height of their reproductive activities. It is the time, as a young professional, as a woman or as a worker, that you are trying to impress your boss, you are trying to get things done and you are a rising star. At the same time, there is that little baby, your family, and all the other challenges that come with that.

If you’re in a context where your rights are not respected, where you are not the one who decides how you are going to space your children, the rest of your life can be messed up. This is the power of the choice that we are talking about for women.

If you are in a country where policy is in place, there is support. But if services are not there, you still have a problem. If you are in a workplace where your boss and your conditions of work do not respect your rights, and do not support you, you still have a problem.

All of these threads need to come together. In this room, we represent the different threads that must be woven together. Because there is one girl, one woman who will experience all of this at the same time, and will need all of us not to work in a fragmented way, but to work as one, so that their lives can be enhanced.

We have seen the challenges for women who are dependent on partners that do not respect them. When a woman has the burden of unpaid care work and has no control over income, she is at high risk. When a girl lives in a community where there is extreme poverty, her parents may think that she is part and parcel of providing income for the family, marrying her off, and that girl is put at risk. When a girl or a woman works in the informal sector, where access to services can be very patchy, they are at risk. That is why it is important to invest in the public sector, which can cope with these challenges. So that whether a woman is in the informal sector, formal sector, rich or poor, all of them can have access to the services that they need.

Child marriage puts girls at very high risk. The risk is even higher for those girls and women who are displaced for one reason or another. Whether they are displaced in their own countries, whether they are refugees, or migrants, we are seeing a trend of increase in child marriage among these displaced populations. This is an area where the protection of rights tends to be significantly compromised.

Schools and community activities that involve young people are important platforms for us to implement solutions. Comprehensive sexuality education is critical. The extent to which we have not been able to have this universally embraced by Member States presents a challenge.

A 2015 study of 22 sexuality and HIV education programmes found that 80 per cent of programmes that address gender inequalities were associated with lower STI and unintended pregnancy rates. Also, it was found that in countries that had gender-responsive budgeting, there was targeted investment on SRHR (sexual and reproductive health and rights) and women’s health in general, we were able to support women and girls to be much fitter for activities that enrich their economic opportunity.

In Cameroon, UN Women has supported income-generating activities with 73 local women’s associations. Assessments show that as a result of increased income, more women are accessing reproductive and maternal health and services. In the process of these women addressing their economic needs, we are able to engage them on their rights, their reproductive rights, and the need for them to demand services.

In Malawi, a conditional cash transfer scheme to give girls in schools showed a 30 per cent reduction in teen pregnancy, and a 64 per cent reduction in HIV risk. These programmes ensured dialogue and awareness raising amongst these girls on their reproductive rights and encouraged them to provide peer learning.

With UN Women’s support through the H6 partnership in Ethiopia, Cameroon, Liberia and Zimbabwe, women and girls are more actively seeking health services after participating in trainings on gender. These collaborations and partnerships that we have as different agencies, for instance as UN Women and UNFPA, allow us to do strong and active work in the areas where we have comparative advantage.

UN Women and its broad mandate for gender equality does the awareness raising. We are able to direct the women to the life-saving work that is done by UNFPA. And through that partnership, we are able to bring together our collective strengths to serve the women.

Next year the Commission on the Status of Women will be focusing on rural women. I hope that we can start now working together on how we will position these rural women, bringing together all our citizens around their needs. I’m sure I do not have to tell this audience how challenged rural women are. It is going to be our coordination that will ensure we are able to address rural women as effectively as we can. As we address rural women, we also bring attention to women with disabilities, to indigenous women and many other women who are challenged by intersectionalities that make their case even worse.

So, thank you so much to all the conveners of this meeting for bringing us together in this session. Thank you

Deputy Secretary-General Amina Mohammed,

Ms. Federica Mogherini, High Representative of the European Union,

Mr. Neven Mimica, EU Commissioner for International Cooperation and Development,

Colleagues from the UN system, especially the Acting Executive Director of UNFPA, my sister Natalia Kanem, and the Administrator of UNDP, Achim Steiner, who are core to this initiative and who I acknowledge for the work they have put into this. 

I want also to thank the team and the colleagues from the Executive Office of both the Secretary-General and the Deputy Secretary-General, as well as the colleagues and the teams from the EU, for the speed with which this work has been done. Intergovernmental bodies are not usually known for speed. However, it is clear that this issue is so high on all of our agendas, and with the Deputy Secretary-General’s determination, we have been able, in relatively few months, to be here today and to present this initiative. 

Gender-based violence is the most de-humanizing form of gender oppression. It exists in every society, in every country, rich and poor, in every religion, and in every culture. If there was anything that was ever universal, it is gender inequality and the violence that it breeds against women. It is also one violation and crime that is perpetrated by relatives and people that women trust, love and depend on, bringing about conflict in the lives of women. We have to bring these people to book. The level of tolerance in society for this crime is seen by the extent to which law enforcement is able to ignore the steps that they need to take to prevent and to prosecute this crime. 

When we talk about one out of three women having experienced violence in their lifetime, this is based on scientific research led by WHO. A lot of the data gathered came from health practitioners. Not all women who experience violence report these crimes, so we can deduce that the figures may be even higher. Emergency rooms in hospitals, dentists, eye specialists, orthopedic surgeons, mental health specialists, and even pathologists give us the statistics that explain to us how complex this crime is and how frequent it is. 

For the longest time violence was regarded as something that was private. The UNiTE campaign to end violence against women, which involves many of you in the United Nations, has helped us a lot to bring this crime into the forefront of attention and to make sure that it is not private. We have also been able, with the help of many of you—civil society, the EU itself, and many governments who are here today—to make sure that we do not allow this crime to be treated as anything else but as a crime, just like any other. It is not acceptable to regard violence against women from a partner as a crime of passion. There is no passion in beating up and killing anyone. 

When a man kills a woman, and for that matter, when a woman kills a man, it is murder. When a man kills a woman, we often hear that passion is involved in it, as if it has to be justified, and the perpetrator has to be given the benefit of the doubt. With the work that we are hoping to do now, we will be dealing with the fundamental stereotypes that perpetrate this kind of outlook and value system. We will be engaging and dealing with the challenges of families that we need on our side, with communities and men and boys, and strengthening civil society and women’s movements who have been in the forefront of this work with very limited resources. 

We will be dealing with the power relations that rob women of the capacity to decide about their own bodies. We hope this Spotlight Initiative will be a game changer. It is critical for us to build a movement for gender equality that is able to work across all countries and all nations determined to be game changers, and to ensure that by 2030, as projected in the Sustainable Development Goals, we are in a much different world. 

What has been positive in the fight to end violence against women has been the resilience of women; the determination for women to survive. The Deputy Secretary-General has said to me that I must let you know that she is a survivor, and she is sitting here, and she is strong, and that is why this is so important. 

Speaking for UNFPA, for UN Women, and for UNDP: we have the privilege of chaperoning this on the part of the UN, but we are determined to work with all other sister agencies, like ILO, UNESCO, WHO and the others who are also active in this space. We will be reaching out to work with civil society. We are excited that the EU is just as committed as we are to ensure that this is not just about governments; it is about civil society; it is about also bringing the private sector, with its own resources, into the fold, so that they too can make a difference. 

This endeavour is also about bringing young people and men and boys to take responsibility, so that it is they who will say: as a man and a boy, ‘I will not marry a child’, as a man and a boy, ‘I will not beat up a woman’, as a man and a boy, ‘I will not stand by and watch a situation in my home and at work where a woman is being abused’. 

We thank you for being here, and we hope you’ll travel the journey with us.

I would like to start by thanking all of you for being here—for your presentations, for your encouragement, for the work that you have done thus far, and the work that you are going to do moving forward.

I want to recognize and thank the members of the Secretary-General’s High-Level Panel on Women’s Economic Empowerment, some of whom are here with their deputies. One of the anchor supporters of this work who is helping us to move forward is the ITC (International Trade Centre), which is another sister agency of the UN, and here with us today. They also gave this work a boost, and we thank you so much for the work that you do to engender trade policies so that trade matters to women.

We have heard that many of the partners who are here have worked in the area of policies and laws. We heard from many Member States who have presented today. For example, the United Kingdom, which is an anchor partner for this initiative, has already passed laws to advance the work of the Panel.

We have heard from partners who are working with the private sector, who are paying attention to transforming that sector, so that it also participates in transforming the economies of the world, so that those economies work for women.

We also heard from multilateral institutions. We heard from the IMF (International Monetary Fund) on the number of initiatives that it is going to be looking into at the macroeconomic level to make sure that we are truly making economies work better for women. We also heard from Oxfam that we need to push the frontiers even more.

So, there is an interesting discourse happening out there. Importantly, we are getting involved from all angles, with different stakeholders bringing their own approaches to transforming the space of women’s economic empowerment.

In UN Women, we have embedded the findings of the Panel in our Strategic Plan for 2018 – 2021. So, in the coming years you will be able to judge our work in the implementation of the Strategic Plan by the extent to which we will be pursuing our commitments. For example, we are addressing the norms and stereotypes that hinder women’s equality, with a specific emphasis on women’s economic empowerment. In that regard, we have launched the Unstereotype Alliance, with 20 major companies that have the biggest marketing and advertising budgets in the world—from Unilever to Google, AT&T, Procter & Gamble and Facebook. Their goal is to transform themselves so that they do not perpetuate stereotypes against women through their advertising and marketing.

Unilever alone spends some $9 billion per year on advertising. What chance does UN Women have to compete against such big budgets? We need the companies themselves to transform their fields, so that we are not the ones trying to transform them. Our strategy has been to work with companies, so that they take the lead, using their own resources to facilitate their transformation.

We have also proceeded with the changing of laws. This is an area in which UN Women is empowered to work, as part of our mandate. A lot of the laws that we are focusing on with our Member States have to do with changing the economic value of women. For instance, ensuring that as many countries as possible take concrete actions to address the ending of forced and early marriage. In the African Union, we have a very strong partnership for addressing this unacceptable practice. Just yesterday, four Member States—Zambia, Senegal, Malawi and Uganda—presented the progress that they were making in addressing this, with no-one less than the country presidents sitting onstage. They sat, they made the case, and they committed. We agreed that every year we will profile different countries, which will present the progress that they are making on this issue, so that by 2030, in Africa and indeed in the rest of the world, we will have addressed child marriage conclusively. These are just some of the activities that we are undertaking that address the work of the Panel.

The Secretary-General highlighted the importance of having recommendations implemented in a manner that is measurable. One way in which UN Women is ensuring that we can measure the work, and that we are walking the talk, is that we have launched a Flagship Programming Initiative called, “Making Every Woman and Girl Count”. This is focusing on data collection and ensuring that we can provide disaggregated data to track the implementation of the SDGs. We are very happy to announce today, for the first time, the five pathfinder countries that have been selected: Bangladesh, Morocco, Senegal, Uganda, and Kenya are the countries in which we will start this work.

We also have a number of countries who are also interested in becoming self-starters. So even though we have a few pathfinder countries, we have many more countries which will be doing this work, including Mexico, which will be launching its own centre of excellence on data collection. This will support other developing countries in a South-South approach. 

We are glad also that so many civil society actors participated in this endeavour, and that, at country level, each in their own way, given the limited resources that civil society has, they are focusing on implementing these recommendations. Many of them are focusing on addressing the plight of the informal sector. 

India is an important country in terms of the size of the population and the vibrancy of the women in that economy. Recently our office there launched its first business council, again motivated by this initiative. The Chairperson of that business council from UN Women India flew all this way to listen to you and is with us today. This is how inspired he is. So, we are really inspiring a lot of people to do the right thing. 

I would be remiss I did not also highlight some of the areas that I am worried about, to which we committed ourselves in the work to follow-up on the HLP, and that need to be addressed. 

By this time, we should have had more countries ratifying the ILO’s Convention 189 on Domestic Workers. That was our aim. We have not had enough movement on this aspect. So, I am urging Member States—some of you are very close to ratification—to take concrete actions in addressing this. 

We have not done enough on youth, which was another area where we had made commitments, as well as addressing women with disabilities. This is a work in progress, but UN Women will be launching a strategy on women with disabilities before the end of the year. 

We also need to be doing much more for women who are affected by conflict, as well as women migrants and women refugees. That also is one of the areas where we have underperformed. We do not have enough takers to support those areas, although we do have enough support in many of the areas that we have highlighted in the strategy. 

We are going to be working alongside you in ensuring that by 2030 many of the ills which we seek to cure will be as cured as much as we possibly can. 

So, thank you so much to you all and to the panellists for your excellent work.